docs(release): document __INVALID__ conventional commit type (#30124)
nrwl/nx: docs/shared/recipes/nx-release/customize-conventional-commit-types.md

  }
}
```

## Including Invalid Commits in the Changelog

> Nx only includes commits in the changelog that match either the [default conventional commit types](https://github.com/nrwl/nx/blob/master/packages/nx/src/command-line/release/config/conventional-commits.ts) or types you've [added to your configuration](#defining-non-standard-commit-types).

Author: [The spec](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/#specification) doesn't state what is valid, outside of `fix` and `feat`, unless I'm missing something.

> I wanted to link out to the types we define by default for Conventional Commits, but Conventional Commits doesn't dictate a standard. My next thought was to link to packages/nx/src/command-line/release/config/conventional-commits.ts, but I'm not sure if that's a typical thing we do. (also worried about links breaking in the future)

Are you referring to the Angular Convention?

> Nx only includes commits in the changelog that match either the [default conventional commit types](https://github.com/nrwl/nx/blob/master/packages/nx/src/command-line/release/config/conventional-commits.ts) or types you've [added to your configuration](#defining-non-standard-commit-types).

Reviewer: This section is specifically about _invalid_ commits - commits that do not match the specification and would ordinarily be ineligible for this feature.

It's not about custom commit types like the rest of the document is, where the commit follows the specification in terms of commit structure, but is using custom types.

E.g.

Valid conventional commit with custom type (not relevant to this section):

```
mycustomtype(optional-scope): a commit message
```

Invalid convetional commit:

```
I made a change.
```

This section is about the latter. Only commits like that will hit the special `__INVALID__` type (that is naturally skipped/does nothing by default)

> Nx only includes commits in the changelog that match either the [default conventional commit types](https://github.com/nrwl/nx/blob/master/packages/nx/src/command-line/release/config/conventional-commits.ts) or types you've [added to your configuration](#defining-non-standard-commit-types).

Author: Ahh right, that makes sense. I'll update accordingly.

> Nx only includes commits in the changelog that match either the [default conventional commit types](https://github.com/nrwl/nx/blob/master/packages/nx/src/command-line/release/config/conventional-commits.ts) or types you've [added to your configuration](#defining-non-standard-commit-types).

Author: ![Screenshot 2025-02-25 at 16 58 11](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d43a66f1-c1ca-471e-9bcc-4870ef2eb516)

You can configure Nx to include non-matching commits by adding the special `__INVALID__` type.

> This can also be useful in cases where you don't use the Conventional Commits standard but still want a changelog to be generated with the contents of each commit message.

Reviewer: It is worth adding a note after this that if you feel you will not be able to stick consistently to conventional commits in the long term you might want to consider file based versioning via version plans instead (and link to that doc)

> This can also be useful in cases where you don't use the Conventional Commits standard but still want a changelog to be generated with the contents of each commit message.

Author: Updated.

  }
}
```

## Including Invalid Commits in the Changelog

Nx only includes commits in the changelog that match either the [default conventional commit types](https://github.com/nrwl/nx/blob/master/packages/nx/src/command-line/release/config/conventional-commits.ts) or types you've [added to your configuration](#defining-non-standard-commit-types).

You can configure Nx to include non-matching commits by adding the special `__INVALID__` type.

This can also be useful in cases where you have not managed to be consistent with your use of the Conventional Commits standard (e.g. when applying it retroactively to an existing codebase) but still want a changelog to be generated with the contents of each commit message and/or for invalid commits to still affect project versioning.

{% callout type="note" title="Alternative to Conventional Commits" %}

> If you don't plan on using Conventional Commits, file based versioning via Version Plans is the recommended alternative for managing releases. See our docs on [File Based Versioning](/recipes/nx-release/file-based-versioning-version-plans) for more information.

Reviewer: We can probably soften this a little, because imperative versioning with either conventional commits or version plans is also fine

```suggestion
If you cannot adhere to the Conventional Commits standard for your commits, file based versioning via Nx Release Version Plans could be a good alternative for managing your releases. See our docs on [File Based Versioning](/recipes/nx-release/file-based-versioning-version-plans) for more information.
```
